# On_Demand_Inflation_System_for_Underwater_Sensor_Deployment
In this thesis defence, I have researched the viability of creating a low-cost autonomous device capable of extracting data from deep water bodies

Deep water bodies remain one of the largest unexplored frontiers in the modern world. However, in recent times scientists and researchers have been making great strides in exploring and understanding deep water bodies and the effect they have on planet Earth as well as the living organisms on the planet. To research deep water bodies, various man-made devices are used to obtain data from regions which have previously been unreachable by humans alone. While these devices have helped propel the study of deep water bodies to new heights, they are not without their disadvantages. These disadvantages gave rise to the need for a new type of system which could operate in an isolated environment for a prolonged period of time and act autonomously in collecting data from deep sea bodies and then transmitting this information back to the device user once it reaches the surface. To achieve the above-mentioned criteria, an on-demand inflation system for underwater sensor deployment was created, and its movement depended on the variations in the volume of the system. This inflation system was created with compressed air as the fuel source and a nylon balloon as the volume-varying component. The inflation system was controlled using an Arduino Nano module which used readings to understand the depth of the system and control the device in a specified manner to take readings for a period of (600.00 ± 0.01) seconds before bringing the system back onto the surface. The ESP32 module on board the inflation system collects the data from the Nano module serially and processes it before saving it. This saved data is then transmitted via a WIFI network created from the ESP32 module. An external device could connect to this network download this data automatically and signal the inflation to restart the data collection process once again. The movement speed of the device is affected primarily by the upthrust force acting on the system and the weight of the inflation system. The prototype maintains an average velocity of (0.1429 ± 0.0005)ms−1 while the second prototype maintains an average velocity of (0.1111 ± 0.0005)ms−1. The depth of the second prototype was limited by the endurance of the waterproof electric box that was used. As it was IP66 rated, the maximum water pressure it could only endure pressure at a depth of 10.2 meters. The prototype successfully operates as an on-demand inflation system for underwater sensor deployment.
